[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'll staple that hat to your
head if you can't keep it on.
It will be in proximity to me.
That means kind of close to me.
It's from the Latin.
You take Latin, don't you?
ROUDY (VOICEOVER): My name
is Thomas Alta Roudebush,
but many people call me Sir.
Anyway, my name is Roudy
but that's R-O-U-D-Y.
I'm kind of the last
cowboy around Telluride.
The others just pass through.
That's good, girls.
Easy, now.
Come on, cows.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER): You get
a horse that trusts you,
and, uh, you have
a wonderful thing.
A lifelong relationship
that isn't gonna let you
down, and go away some time.
These mountains
are an inspiration
to me on a daily basis.
You feel deep roots when
you live on the Continental
Divide for 30 years.
It's the backbone of the
world, and maybe it makes
me stronger just looking at it.
Hey, hey, hey.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER): As I get
older I have more questions,
but I don't care so
much about the answers.
It's more the matter of the
pondering is what I enjoy.
These are wild
animals, these elk,
and it's taken me 16 years
to get them to trust me--
not much, but enough
that I can ride
up to them on horses, which
they're not as fearful of.
It's all right, girls.
It's just me.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER):
Whenever I start
to scare 'em, I turn my side to
'em so I'm a prey animal too,
and then they-- then
they look at me and go,
oh, he's just that guy
that talks all the time.
It's nothing scary
about old Rowdy.
I want the horse calmed
down, not fired up.
What you're doing
is the opposite
of what I asked you to do.
What have I done
for Rowdy today,
or better, what have I done for
Rowdy in the past few seconds?
All day long,
think that nonstop.
I came here in April
and asked Rowdy, uh,
did he need any help?
His only one question was,
you don't cry easy, do ya?
Much as I hide
it, I really enjoy
harassing these young people
every day of their lives.
He's good with the horses,
though, and he loves us all.
He's just not sure how
to say it all the time.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER):
Basically, someone
said, what's new in your
life, and I was able to say,
well, I'm sober.
So that's a new thing for me.
And interesting work, sobriety.
I certainly gave
alcohol every chance
to be the right way to go.
Cindy, girl, there you go.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER): In
Wisconsin where I was raised,
no one mentioned that if you
drank a case of beer every day
for 30 years, it would
become addicting.
There's water in that.
I can still be a big tipper.
I'm always telling her
that even though there's
no alcohol in these
glasses, I still want 'em.
A lot of 'em.
As long as I can
exercise my arm.
He's going to be
in the bars forever.
I'd love to have a drink.
Coming in here to
see his old friends,
whether he drinks or not--
it makes no difference.
And that was probably the
reason I quit the alcohol,
is to have more freedom.
And that's what I
got-- a whole lot more
freedom than I used to have.
ROUDY (VOICEOVER): God,
I'd have less rules.
We've experienced being free
and unfettered human beings here
because there aren't
many people and there
isn't much government.
And so it's hard to
have your freedoms
even infringed a little bit.
Cherish your freedom.